is that BPD there there's actually some
very interesting data so a lot of people
think of BPD is being incurable but
there's a there's some really
fascinating data that if you can get in
a stable relationship for two years and
have someone not abandon you then
there's a 50% chance your BPD will like
actually go away
you sound good to me you sound good to
me too man good good so how you doing
man I actually had a few days where I
was helping a friend with depression uh
which was kind of therapeutic for me
yeah and I kind of I was using some
things you taught me and it seems to be
working it was nice
well hold on can i Hanson about this I
mean I want to preserve this person's
privacy and everything yeah but I think
that's awesome
can we talk about that for a second I'm
excited sure so tell me tell me a little
bit about someone that you know and
obviously care about was feeling sad or
down or depressed yeah um
they're in a spot in life where they
don't really know what path they want to
go down they have a lot of minor
interests but no big overwhelming drive
toward one specific thing uh-huh and
then I was able to relate to that I was
in felt like that before and how good it
will feel to find the specific drive or
a motivator a dark Dharma you call it
right yeah and just trying to search
with them for what they could do what
what they're passionate about and asking
a bunch of questions it was fun for me I
was excited to help them find it and we
were seeing we seem to be getting
somewhere that's awesome man I'm so
happy to hear that yeah so here's the
thing I don't think you need to like
have a degree or be like a licensed
professional to like help another human
being and I think it's yes I can't see
you in discord because you have to turn
it off Moebius wait or is it me no maybe
it's me hold on you haven't pressed the
little camera button tomorrow there we
go
okay there we go sorry parrot oh good
yes so I think that's that's awesome and
I'm so happy that you were able to do
that for someone yeah yeah I I noticed I
very much enjoy trying to help people
find something they're passionate about
and I took that uh myers-briggs sixteen
personality test uh-huh what do you
think about that by the way so I think
it is a useful tool to help people
understand themselves in terms of like
what resonates and what doesn't there's
a lot of non independent research on
myers-briggs so myers-briggs has not
been to the best of my knowledge very
independently verified I'm so there's a
myers-briggs Research Institute and they
do a lot of research but I don't think
it's been studied as well as something
that is like let's say the five factor
model which doesn't mean is it isn't
useful it just may not be as scientific
as people think it is okay interestingly
enough myers-briggs is in my opinion
based on iron meta which not many people
know tell us about that a little
so myers-briggs is it was developed by
people who are studying Carl Jung so
Carl Jung is the one who came up with
the term introvert and extrovert I think
and so they sort of took some of Carl
Jung's teachings and then tried to
develop a system of personality
assessment based on Jung's
work the interesting thing is like
Jung's work is heavily influenced by
Eastern philosophy and Eastern
perspectives on the mind so for example
the idea that there are different mental
types which is I think myers-briggs has
done the best job of sort of sharing
this concept with with the West which is
that like your mental type is not the
same as other people's mental type which
is generally like when we think about
psychology like if you study a
psychology textbook they talk about like
things they talk about principles of the
mind as if they apply to everyone yes
right but myers-briggs says oh there are
fundamentally different kinds of minds
and that concept I think is different
from like it's not actually a Western
concept that's actually like a concept
that comes from Eastern medicine because
Western psychology and science and
medicine is about the standardization of
all human beings so like when we you
learned cardiac physiology a heart is a
heart is a heart yeah it's very
beneficial to realize that the minds are
different so that you can try to when
you're communicating with someone you
can realize that their perspective is
different one than yours that they see
the world in another way that even the
things they enjoy or care about can be
complete opposites or I I hadn't
realized that so much I guess I guess
that's what I was liking about a friend
of mine talking about the myers-briggs
yeah yeah and I think just as a
practical point so I did a trained a
myers-briggs training where we did like
a personality assessment through like
the official institution as part of my
psychiatry training and I thought it was
wonderful like there were all kinds of
like there was actually a medical doctor
who's a myers-briggs trained person who
was teaching it so she was explaining to
us how a lot of the interactions we have
within the field of medicine can be
broken down
according to myers-briggs personality
typing and I actually found it to be
quite helpful mm-hmm
do you know what you're do you feel
comfortable sharing what your type is
yeah so I took it a long long time ago
and back then I got INTP but then I took
it two days ago
I had a completely different one so I've
changed I guess but I have to look up
which one it was ah I watched a YouTube
video on what it was afterwards I look
at my history did you take the official
test or you took like an online version
so I took some online version it was
pretty long though what's the official
one in comparison I mean you have to pay
money for the official one usually and
how long how many questions is it I
don't know I don't remember maybe like
150 or something
okay um and I'm having trouble finding
this I got I got one that when I went on
the YouTube video about it it said that
this personality type enjoys trying to
help people find what they are
passionate about
yeah Oh II nfj I think that is wildly
different from I MTP yeah let me make
sure ENFJ oh wait maybe it was ENFP hold
on hold on
I was watching this video hold on hold
on it was this the one yeah okay I think
it was ENFP yeah so in the my official
myers-briggs test they also give you
like what percentage you are so for
example like you can be a strong tea or
a strong F or you can be kind of in the
middle and a couple of other things
about myers-briggs typing so you can
like fluctuate over time and you can
adopt different attitudes in different
situations yeah so right now this seemed
really fitting for me because it said
that I like to start things and inspire
people and give broad ideas and then
other people will go in and do the
specifics which is really accurate for
what I'm doing on Everland
yeah yeah cool how are you feeling um
today yeah so today I haven't taken
psilocybin I mean okay if you can tell
I'm feeling okay I you know I have my
usual low desire I've had some wavering
confidence recently it's just coming and
going like sometimes there'll be moments
where I'm very confident myself and
wanting to talk to people
I'll be going on a walk outside by the
river and I'll i'ma start conversation
with with with random people and and in
a way that I was never able to do before
I'll I used to maybe think oh how would
I even talk to someone I'll say hello
and then I'll run I have nothing else to
say but somehow I'll always think of a
topic of something pertaining to exactly
what's going on in the situation or I
don't know and the conversation just
flows and it makes me feel confident
good that I can do that yeah but then
other days that I feel a low self-esteem
scared to look people in the eyes even
mm-hmm
so it's going back and forth a lot and
my how good I'm feeling is a lot has a
lot to do with the validation I'm
getting from others and I'd love for it
to be more independent but if one person
finds my one person finds my hmm my
conversation or whatever uninteresting
or uncomfortable for them it'll affect
my mood a lot and I won't be able to
focus or feel good about myself yeah
okay
out of curiosity the first time we
talked do you know if you had used
psilocybin that day I had but it would
have been like five hours before we
talked before we began talking so was
near the very end okay
you know okay how does it feel sorry go
ahead
yeah go ahead how does it feel to sort
of not have control over which reckful
shows up well I do have control cuz I
can take it or not take it that's in my
control right yeah okay so do you feel
like the confident reckful shows up when
you do take it yeah when I take it
consistently
everything's consistently better and
every single time I'm like maybe I can
be interesting without it
and maybe maybe I prefer being out
without it today what if I decide to
take it then I do feel better every
single time it hasn't ever happened
where I don't um it's interesting so I
was I was talking with Gary my brother
he said he was watching our talks and um
well he was really happy for me anyway
that uh I'm feeling better nowadays but
he wanted me to mention to you that I've
been missing him also in my life because
he ran away and went backpacking in
South America fifteen years ago and
never came back
since then he came back he streamed with
me like one a couple days like in 2012
and uh he came for a few days here and
there to the US but he's just been
traveling the world and staying in
hostels for like 15 years uh and he said
he ran away because it was overwhelming
for him all the responsibility he had to
take on in the family that he felt like
he had to be my dad when he was my
brother you know I actually wanted to
bring him on he said he can't today but
next week he said he could come on if we
want to talk okay we three yeah maybe
that'd be good right yeah absolutely
yeah
I mean no what do you think what do you
think about that reckful about what he
did and why do you think it's relevant
here well why did he mention it or why
do I think it's relevant why do you
think it's relevant I think it's
relevant because it helps paint a fuller
picture of the story of a family and
actually his experience was probably a
lot harder than mine because he was 16
when it happened and it's a more more
formative years I guess I I guess so I'm
not sure yeah
and he suddenly his personality shifted
you know 180 degrees when it happened he
was texting me talking about how he
feels to blame that my brother died and
he feels like he knew he was gonna kill
himself and that he could have stopped
it and he feels like my brother didn't
directly tell him but he knew and you
know this that when you go down that
thought process it's really hard what's
hard on that thought process for him
it's a field to take the blame on for it
that's very hard and I was telling him
though that it would have happened
regardless if it didn't happen that day
cuz I know what it's like to be sad for
years and it's just it's really hard to
avoid trying to kill yourself at some
point yeah now unless he had found a
really good therapist or some medication
I think he would have happened regard
for psilocybin or psilocybin yeah which
I that's medication I think yeah but uh
or meditation maybe I think the problem
with meditation even if it gets you
there a really depressed person won't
put in the time required that's the
problem that completely I believe you
fully that it would meditation can get
someone there I just don't go anywhere
outside out of depression okay but I
think it's really hard to get a
depressed person to start meditating and
stick with it similarly to how I feel
it's very hard to get an anxious person
to go to therapy because they're too
anxious about going I completely agree
with you yeah
so so I think the the tricky think about
meditation is while I you know it is an
evidence-based treatment for a lot of
mental health issues it requires a lot
of I don't think it's a good acute
treatment right so when we think about
medicine their acute treatments and then
they're like non-acute treatments so I
think yoga and surgery are both good for
your body but if you've been acutely
injured in a motor vehicle accident you
need surgery not yoga and I think Yoga
is good for like you know the healing
process and to make sure you maintain
mobility and things like that afterward
that kind of think about meditation the
same way so I actually dislike it
sometimes when some people come to me
and they say I'm super super depressed I
don't want medication I don't just want
to meditate my way through it and I'm
happy to have them try that but I think
that science has given us a lot of tools
including you know psychoactive
compounds like medications and then if
you know things go I mean I just saw a
couple of other things about FDA
fast-tracking MDMA and other of these
psychoactive compounds because I do
think that they're therapeutic yeah what
kind of is it okay but can I push you
right into the experience they well at
least they open a door for you and it's
really easy to go in that door I heard
it MDMA helps with PTSD I think we
talked about that a little bit so
reckful if we were to just think a
little bit about what direction you want
to go so you've feel like we have a
couple of open doors that we can explore
one is that you know if you want to
continue talking about psilocybin and
how it makes you feel and when you use
it and when you don't we can talk about
Gary and what it was like you were sort
of putting yourself in his shoes a
little bit and sort of imagining what it
was like for him and we can continue to
explore that or we can talk about what
it was like for you to have Gary leave
and I mean I think all three of those
are good what do you think we should
spend our time on today it's interesting
today all of those sounds scary to
explore maybe it's because I'm not on so
Simon but I just I
think about it and it sounds like a
daunting task to go down any of those
paths okay um I don't know which one we
should go down I prefer so josy okay
sure so III am gonna actually offer
number four so how do you face life when
life gives you daunting tasks mmm right
so like let's not go down let's not
force ourselves through any one of those
roads and let's try to find you where
you are because I'm glad I'm glad I'm so
glad you said that reckful because I
think a lot of the challenge like you
said like it's hard to meditate when
you're feeling a certain way and the way
that you're feeling instead of just
pushing you down a path because it's
quote-unquote good for you or you know
helps you understand things or whatever
let's try to meet you where you are and
talk about what is it what does it feel
like
I like this oppressor to live where you
are right now yeah what is it like when
when you have a choice in life to take
some some substance and then for things
to no longer be as daunting and then to
like not take that substance some days
and then like life feels daunting like
that sounds terrifying to me maybe a bit
it's more terrifying to not have the
option to take anything because then
you're hopeless okay but I I agree with
you that most people wouldn't like the
feeling of reliance on anything like
that I also get often get the feeling of
reliance on other people yeah I do well
alone and I'll be very overbearing for
people sometimes because sometimes I
feel like I just need someone to talk to
I can't be in my thoughts like I'm yeah
losing my mind in my room I just can't
handle it so I'll just message someone
and
they won't respond and I'll message them
again and I'll have this huge wall of
text and then they'll be like oh this
person is just too much for me even if
it's a long term friends might hang on
for like seven years yeah this big and
then they'll notice they'll start
talking to me less and less because of
these situations where I was overbearing
or just needed them at the specific time
and tried to push them to go outside
with me or you know spontaneously I
always want to do these spontaneous
things and people most people like to
plan more I've always had trouble
planning I I never bought a round-trip
plane ticket yeah what what is it what
is it within you that what are you
hungry for in those moments where you
need someone else connection I really
want I want to hear someone relating to
me in some way well I think I do but
then if I actually reach out to someone
very depressed then we bounce off back
and forth about how much life sucks and
it just gets darker at darker so and
then if I reach out to someone happy I
can't relate to them hmm sounds like
you're damned if you do damned if you
don't
yeah so so it looks like you're looking
for something but I mean are there
people that you can connect with that
sort of have the balance that makes you
feel better once in a while and it's
really incredible when I find that and
those people means so much to me I'm so
scared for them to disappear because
though there'll be people who have been
there but are currently okay and I think
those are the ones when I talk to them
they can relate but they can also be
optimists yep yep yeah I think that's a
really important realization so I'm
gonna just repeat back some words at you
and so it sounds like you're looking for
connection yes right and that you're
looking for a particular kind of
connection someone who understands where
you are but at the same time isn't where
you are yes and when you find someone
like that you feel
some think within you feels really good
so what how do we describe the way you
feel when you find someone like that I
want to find someone like that oh well I
feels I guess I was smiling just
thinking about it I III think I'm
looking a little bit for family in my
friendships and it feels like I have a
family member at that moment have you
thought about that before no that was
just now I go ahead yeah I mean I'm
surprised that you got there that quick
I think you're learning fast yeah I
wonder if I can process these thoughts
better sober
I feel so there's this disconnect that
I'm not interested in my own thoughts
right now you know cuz I'm have no
desires because that's how I am and I
but I assume that if I'm on psilocybin
since I'm having more fun since I'm
getting provoked but thought that my own
thoughts are stimulating my my mind that
everyone else is more interested in what
I'm saying as well which isn't exactly
always true I can't tell because I'm
locked in my experience and if my
experience is better I assume other
people's experiences better usually as a
streamer that is the case if I'm
laughing other people are laughing it's
been true but there have been a couple
times I've been really happy and there
was this really strong disconnect with
my chat they would we're not enjoying
yeah me and not
that doesn't seem like a profound
realization but it was anyway I can't
tell right now if I am thinking or
getting to the correct conclusions
quickly or more slowly than usual I feel
like I'm talking slowly right now you
are talking slowly you're saying I'm
less animated so there's also another
layer of something going on is like when
we're talking about you and suddenly you
start talking about your interactions
with your viewers mm-hmm right so the so
this we have to be careful about because
how much of the person that you try to
be is about being you and how much about
it is like being what your viewers want
um well I've had a moral in my head
since I started streaming and I guess
since I've started living really said I
always want to be true to myself I want
to yeah it's one of my favorite ones
because the because is a
harder to define I've always noticed
myself getting annoyed with other people
who are putting up facade mm-hmm an
alternate persona I also think it's
damaging to society in general for
anyone to be pretending to be happy when
they're not actually sharing your pain
helps others relate if people are just
watching happy people all the time
they wonder what's wrong with me you
know I think that adapt slates a lot of
what's the damage of social media yeah I
agree and even on get on social media
even I'm guilty of it because I don't
feel like tweeting hey I want to die
right now doesn't really don't really
tweet that but I
if I'm having a good thought a happy
thought I'll tweet that if I'm a live
streaming I'll share the negative and
the positive but on social media you
tend not to out of curiosity if you
tweet I feel like dying right now and
you get a bunch of likes for that what
does it like mean yeah does that mean we
love you and please don't hurt yourself
or does it mean I don't know we can
obviously it's like so good music I
don't even know what that means like I
wouldn't know how to interpret that I
think all the UH I think all the
employees of Everland would be a little
worried about their job not good for me
or for anyone else
so reckful is it okay if I kind of go
back to sort of you and and the way that
you experience things and take a step
back a little bit from some of this
social commentary sure so this all
started with a question that I asked you
about you know what does it feel like
when you find that connection and then
you paused and you were thinking for a
little bit and that he said you know
took the words out of my mouth and you
said it feels like I'm trying to replace
family with friends and then we went off
on this track of sort of like I don't
know if if you know I I don't know if I
understand things better or worse when
I'm on on psilocybin or you know and so
you kind of went off on that tangent and
we can explore that too about like you
know what is the nature of your
understanding that you gained what does
it feel like one of the advantages and
disadvantages of being able to swim in
both worlds or should we just pick one
or the other but if it's okay with you
we can run with this thread of
connecting with another human being
because I think there's more there sure
so can you help us understand what you
meant when you were a fivehead or six
head and you said I feel like I'm trying
to replace I mean I feel like I'm trying
to I'm treating my friends like family
or something yeah so how did you get to
that conclusion
well it crossed my mind this feeling I
had when I was five years old and came
home and saw laughing and smiling faces
it on the couch something I never saw
again after I was six
um I've been thinking about that a lot
recently
ever since we started talking and I
realized that to come back to bring that
back and a couple times I've I tried to
facilitate situations with friends where
this would happen and I lived with a
bunch of friends and I like a gamer
house and I'd want to come home and see
a couple friends around the couch
yeah sometimes we'd be playing Mario or
something and coming home to that gave
me some deep satisfaction that I needed
um I guess from my childhood but maybe
not just from my childhood I mean people
needed as adults to even if they had
even so high so what is that
satisfaction that you're looking for
what is that feeling that you're like
when you connect with someone and they
understand you just
I can feel what it is right now but I
can't describe it
my right way knows what is it what does
it feel like in your body it's that
feeling where you when you really want a
hug don't know how else to describe it
yeah a what I'm seeing in your face is
an aching loneliness just an abject
sense of just being yeah in it it like
hurts right it's like not just being
lonely like lonely doesn't describe it
it's like hurts it feels like
something's missing and the only thing
that can like you need someone else to
fill that in because you've tried for a
long time to like fill it yourself and
you just can't yeah
but they keep it keeps happening where
the people I'm trying to fill it in with
think I'm crazy ya know cuz they're not
as needy as I am for soon now there's a
whole other layer to this you need a
minute or can we keep going no we can
keep going so I think there's there two
fears here one is like the feeling of
aching and loneliness and the second is
when you find those people the fear that
they're going to leave to that you're
gonna do something and then they're
gonna stop returning your to me do ya so
it's not an irrational fear right so
what do we call that
hmm what do we consider when you're
afraid of someone leaving
and then you call it fear of abandonment
yeah yeah and in your case reckful this
is this needs to be understood very
clearly so some people when they
recognize those things within themselves
they blame themselves right they say I
shouldn't feel this way or this is
weakness or I should be able to be
independent do you have those thoughts I
used to because everyone I talk to would
tell me oh I don't know why you're in a
relationship when you can't even be
happy alone or you know that's a very
common line I hear and I would say well
if I wasn't in the relationship I'd want
to die okay obviously not a healthy so
it would I'm gonna ask you a couple of
questions okay now if I if you have
someone who's lonely or not even lonely
how does someone get comfortable how can
I say this how does someone get
comfortable with being alone like what
has to happen for them to feel
comfortable with like separation from
other human beings and this may be a
little bit of a reading my mind
questions so sorry I don't know how to
answer ask it well well I mean that void
that you're talking about needs to be
filled but I don't know how to fill it i
if I had a family maybe it would be okay
but in my situation what can I do know
your situation what you can do now oddly
enough I I think you're on on the right
track and I want to stop there because I
want to talk about someone else let's
talk about someone besides you right if
you have a person who feels lonely and
feels like they have a void within them
what is the solution because there's a
there's all that there's the camp of
people who says why are you in a
relationship if you can't be happy by
yourself right they're saying like okay
the first thing you need to do is fill
that void and then you can be with
someone in a healthy and productive way
does that make sense yeah that's what
they say that's what they say right but
let's just think about that for a second
is that actually correct because if you
have that void within you and you feel
loneliness within you if you're afraid
of abandonment how do you get someone to
stop fearing abandonment
you don't abandon them absolutely so
this needs to be understood reckful you
cannot fix this for yourself that's a
bit scary yeah right so it's not that
the relationship has to happen after you
fix this for yourself or I mean maybe
you can't fix it for yourself maybe
that's unfair for me to say it's kind of
like a blanket statement so I think
maybe you can generally what you've seen
generally when I think about people who
have been abandoned
they fear abandonment and that's what
happened to you right like cuz
apparently you weren't abandoned by just
one brother Yeah right how old are you
now thirty okay so when you were fifteen
one brother left when you were six one
and the other brother left when you were
fifteen yeah yeah
and that's hard right and so like this
is this is like so I mean I don't wasn't
like it wasn't just like he left for a
job or you know to school it was he left
the country and never came back
yeah so if he left for like college or a
job like that I don't think is the same
as like he just ya up it like straight
up left yeah cuz when he had left for
college it was okay we would come back
some weekends and we would play Final
Fantasy so don't take turns sir
some things like that yeah yeah order
Chinese food I remember yeah and and I
mean it was bad enough without one and I
think you were maybe getting your sea
legs under you and then like round two
hits and and then what happens is you
have this thing that's that's afraid
that other people are gonna leave you
and I think the problem is that you're
smart and and something probably very
vicious happens and I can a
self-fulfilling prophecy that absolutely
they're gonna leave me then they will
leave me because I'll be overbearing in
the capsule and you can see it happening
and it terrifies you because you can't
stop it and you know what's gonna happen
yeah and each time it happens it's
another abandonment another abandonment
another abandonment yeah yeah I've had
about there been a like three or four
people just in the last few months that
I've started to talk to you regularly
and then I was quickly too much they
liked me at first my company and then I
was quickly too needy or too much for
them and they started feeling like they
should ignore me which is doesn't even
feel unreasonable I can't no matter so
what it comes down to so I'm gonna share
a little bit of data okay I want to be
very clear about this I'm gonna talk to
you about something called borderline
personality disorder I don't think you
have this by the way and it's really
okay a lot of people think I do have
that maybe you do I don't know so I
don't have enough time I don't know so
I'm gonna just talk a little bit about
borderline personality disorder because
I think that there's some features of it
which are irrelevant yeah and also like
some very interesting data that some
people don't know so the first is that
borderline personality disorder a lot of
times these people have a fear of
abandonment and so they do get overly
clingy and as they get overly clingy
they sort of like force people away and
then it kind of like reinforces their
fear that like they're unlovable yeah
and then that sort of and each round
makes it worse because once you do to
the first person your sense of being
unlovable increases and then when you
interact with the next human being like
that
that wolf has become hungrier and so
when when they sort of treat you well
they feel really good about themselves
and when the person starts to I kind of
slip away it gets like stronger and
stronger and stronger and each round is
like a becomes as you put it a
self-fulfilling prophecy and makes it
harder mm-hmm now what many people don't
know about BPD is that BPD there there's
actually some very interesting data so a
lot of people think of BPD is being
incurable but there's a there's some
really fascinating data that if you can
get in a stable relationship for two
years and have someone not abandon you
then there's a 50% chance your BPD will
like actually go away so it's really
fascinating and I think the opposite of
you shouldn't get in a relationship
until you're yeah so a lot of people
struggle with BPD but it's it's a really
fascinating little snippet of research
which I don't think is like well
understood by many people disputed by
many people but the truth is that the
majority of people who have BPD never
see a psychiatrist they just live their
lives and then some people were they're
just like kind of crazy until like their
30s in their second marriage and they
find someone who's like stable enough to
like not abandon them and also deal with
their like neediness and then like over
time they get better because they start
to like recognize oh this person
actually isn't gonna leave and then like
if you realize that someone isn't gonna
leave you then what does that do to like
the hungry like that aching loneliness
inside I I heard you but your camera
froze oh [ __ ] sorry yeah this is
freezing but okay what the last couple
words went a little robot so so what
what was the aching loneliness inside
you if someone doesn't leave you and you
have faith and confidence in that I
become more stable and go through my
days feeling
like my presence was desired I'd be able
to go in my room alone and work on
something and not feel like I needed to
be near someone at that moment because I
know they'd be there for me later
exactly that's the key thing right you
know they're gonna be here for you later
and the problem right now is when you
start texting people a little bit much
and they can't handle it you don't know
that they're gonna be here therefore you
don't yeah and that's what terrifies you
so the other way so like even if you
dispute the research on BPD and I don't
know if you have BPD or you don't have
BPD but think about it this way if a
child feels insecure about like being
abandoned like what do you do like when
a kid probably hug them a lot and you
spend time with them yeah absolutely
right so like I'll share a little bit
for my personal life so when I had my
second kid my first kid was like really
confused and she was like super super
clingy to me because she didn't
understand what was happening so like I
went to the hospital with my wife and we
were like at the hospital and and my
in-laws so her grandparents were staying
with her they did an awesome job and she
likes them but she was two years old and
she literally did not understand what
was going on she did not understand like
why my wife and I would not come home
yeah and she would come and see us every
day in the hospital and she would be
like excited when she saw us and she
would actually be okay leaving because
she's like a pretty you know confident
sort of loving kid but she just did not
understand like why mommy and daddy were
like not coming back and so she got
super super clingy for about a year and
that was like doubly so because
especially towards the end of my wife's
pregnancy she used to do some things
like she would Bollywood dance with my
two-year-old but as she was like eight
and nine months pregnant she like can't
like she can't pick her up and throw her
in the air and things like that and so
the tumor was already like noticing that
something is different
and then she liked what it was attached
to me at the hip even at that age
there's that perceptive huh
that perceptive yeah right
so then then for like for a period of
about a year and she didn't understand
cuz like my wife would have to feed the
newborn right so she was like tired all
day and things like that
she couldn't be like the person that
that my two-year-old had come to know
and love and expect the level of
attention she had come to expect who had
diminished yeah and so she did not feel
good in herself right the two-year-old
just didn't because she didn't
understand why these people are not
doing the things like is something wrong
with me she didn't understand why they
went away because when you're - or
because when you're five and someone
goes away like you don't understand why
they did that you don't have the
capacity to understand that they did
that because of them and not because of
you yeah I still never believed that
sentence yep right because like you you
can't believe it because you didn't have
the capacity believe it and that thing
still exists within you and so what did
she need to get out of it so she's -
it's not that complicated
right she needed 50% sorry a third of
her life to have someone who did not
like abandon her in a very like
intentional way so my wife and I we had
this like conversation when she was like
you know we had these several
conversations that like okay your bond
with the new kid is not the same as your
bond with the old kid because you're
spending all the time with Vee Revere's
our older daughter our younger
daughter's name is avi and so she was
like saying that like you know you're
not spending time with avi the way that
you used to spend time with Viren and we
would kind of like talk about it and
it's like well yeah that's because like
Veera needs me more and so we're really
concerned about sort of playing
favorites and stuff but I think in her
case it all Kurt huh that's tough I
haven't thought about the intricacies of
having multiple children and how you
want it to be balanced where you give
them both equal time but what if one of
them needs you more you
cuz they're yeah like this yeah then
then then you start to give one more
attention than the other one might be
subtly losing confidence or yeah that's
tough I wouldn't know what to do there's
no obvious logical solution well I mean
so when you talk to people I think
they're they're solutions that seem that
are simpler that tend to do the trick so
for example like we made it a point to
do like one-on-one time like each of us
would swap traditional things so like
for example my wife would usually give
veera bath and then I'd say like okay
for this month I'm gonna give her a bath
instead of you let's just swap the
things that we do so they're a couple of
actually pretty easy like low-hanging
fruit turns out to be because it's
something it's not exactly balanced yeah
it's Joe yeah like some one-on-one time
consistently but the point here reckful
is I think like your solution is not
that like you need to learn how to be
independent I think like I don't know if
I'm painting this picture for you
appropriately but like what do you think
needs so like what what did we manage to
do for our two-year-old that never
happened for you gave that gave you gave
the two-year-old enough attention
absolutely yeah and I think that's what
you need you need you need someone in
your life who's not going to turn away
for a period of at least two years and
you may be terrified that they'll turn
away at two point five right I might
never get it yeah I mean there's no
guarantee I will but I look for it him
yeah so sure there is I would not say so
I there's only one I've gotten some
really unhealthy situations because I'm
so desperate for human interaction that
I'll have you know paid people's rent
just so they'd be my roommate said have
someone around you know done it a few
times just a lot of dumb things like
that or try to get them to quit their
jobs and I give them a new job that
requires less time so I could have a
friend
and obviously I've realized that these
things are unhealthy but I was just in
desperate situations where I needed
human interaction so reckful I am
confident and okay
I'm confident there's gonna be someone
around in your life who will be there
for you most of the time when you need
them hopefully for at least a period of
two years okay how can I be confident in
that how can you be confident yeah well
you probably you find me stimulating I
talk too and I'm not demanding too much
of your time or spamming you with walls
of text and even if I were you'd feel
inclined to answer me because it's you
you love helping people it's it's your
passion so from your perspective maybe
you can feel confident but then if you
put yourself in the shoes of any other
human being I don't know that they'll
really spend two years with me unless
there's it's erect well I'm not I'm not
counting on them to spend two years with
you what are you counting on I'm
counting on myself see oh there you'll
spend two years with me hey yeah that I
believe that I can believe yeah so I
can't trust any of them true so I'm
gonna come to you every week like this
I'm gonna try to love you for two years
[Music]
so this is a the other thing is that I
do helping people but I also like
helping you and I want you to understand
this reckful this isn't I'm not even
helping you like this isn't help I don't
like the phrase health help implies like
charity right it implies that you have
something and that you have nothing and
I have something and I'm like helping
you I'm not helping you this is just me
being human and you being human
I don't know if that makes any sense I
think it's one of the hinged by human
it's just like it were just being
awesome an it's not something fancy
you're doing what you enjoy
it's not about a joy it's I'm being who
I am and you are being who you are and
that's the most that we can expect of
ourselves yeah I I want to say that I
fully understand but I don't yeah and if
you do spare me with walls of text I'll
get back to you as soon as I can
no actually I like this this is good
practice that I have to wait the week
yeah because that's what other people
want me to do
they want me to plan ahead and wait to
see them when they have time and not be
like oh I need hang up right now I need
you know let's go outside I need someone
to talk to you please
you know yeah and this is the other
important thing reckful very important
very very important okay we have to be
careful about our relationship yeah
because the challenge is that when you
start doing things to get people to be
with you you can do that but it taints
what they mean to you and it taints the
color of what that person does for you
because then something like goes into
your mind and and it's kind of like are
they doing this because I'm paying their
rent or are they doing this because they
like me
yeah yes listen it's very important that
we're very careful about like not
tainting and for you to go forward you
know if there's someone that you want to
form a relationship with don't taint the
relationship don't try to get me just be
aware of that because what you really
need is someone who wants you to who
wants you for you yeah and you make it
hard on them by giving them things that
they may need in life
yeah but recently I try to make it
mutually beneficial at least I hope so
I mean things can be you can engage in
mutually beneficial relationships that's
fine I'm just saying like be careful
about when your loneliness there's a
difference between helping someone out
because you're they're your friend and
you like you care about them as a
genuine person and you're just trying to
help them out and there's a there's a
difference between that and trying to
keep someone close to you because you're
feeling lonely yeah I've done both for
sure yet more and sometimes those get
muddled yeah so I'm not saying anything
else breathing so just going forward you
know just be careful about that and try
to notice that loneliness within you I'm
trying so it keeps happening where I'm
hiring people on Everland
they're very talented but I also like
spending time with them so it's getting
close to that muddled area but it really
does seem like the correct play I'll ask
you know Mike I lost Talbot or my lead
designer if this is a good hire say yes
it really is they're amazing
I know but I think I think this is a
situation where it's mutually beneficial
that's what I actually really like about
this whole game development thing is
they're getting a job God my first
thought was I'm getting a friend but
this is fine they're getting a job I'm
getting a friend I'm getting someone to
and I'm also I mean the project is
progressing because of it and it's
forming a sense of community in our
workspace yeah so I mean I think that
makes sense and and I think that you
know it's it's challenging to navigate
those relationships and what I want you
to do is like cut yourself some slack
okay cuz you have and well yeah you have
a you have a big void of love and and
that's gonna that's gonna you know
that's gonna cause you to do a couple of
things and that's not like it's not your
fault right like you're just you just
need more love man and that's okay and
at the same time I think you should be
intentional about giving yourself the
opportunities to be cared for
appreciated and loved by other human
beings who are not your employees and to
cultivate those relationships yeah I'm
trying I I have a few now yeah my old
friends from Lao are the best examples
because we just met online and played
games together and
talked every day for years you know
formed a deep sense of community it was
a little sad for me
it's similarly to how after high school
you and all your friends go to different
places or pursue different walks of life
after world of warcraft all my friends
went to different games or job careers
you know even if we went to the same
career if it happened to be streaming
it's actually such an isolating job most
of the time not for you because you're
talking to someone every time but most
people that they're streaming on their
own just playing a game right so it
wasn't the same as when we just spend
time together online yeah good how you
feeling right now
Phil uh I'm happy that I was able to
come on here without psilocybin and
still deep dive some critically some
thoughts critically think
get somewhere learn something also I
think the my viewers probably like
seeing the other side of me here because
I've been on psilocybin every stream for
a while I'm scared to be this version of
me in front of people now a bit a little
bit I just I mean they used to see this
version of me all the time but I'm just
[Music]
identifying more with my happy side
I like being happy me I mean who doesn't
right I wonder what people think
actually I lost them at the end so I
like your oath means I think you're
doing a really good job reckful because
I think you're right I mean who doesn't
like to be the happy version of
themselves but I think that the real you
and you know is not all happiness that's
not what life is like life is not just
like you know just the happy side of
life and there are a lot of people who
try to chase that part of themselves
what I would advocate for you to do
along with just about everyone else is
that you like you be both of these
people and you learn how to be sad
reckful better because I do believe that
you can be this person and it not be as
hard or as painful as it is for you to
experience like day to day now like I
think that if you have someone who
consistently loves you and demonstrates
that they're not going to leave you for
a period of two years like being this
person is gonna be completely different
in the sad and difficult thing is that's
not something you can do you can't make
someone love you like that's just
something that depends on your governme
someone has to come into your life and
you have to like create this time and
space for that relationship it makes
sense what you're saying cuz there have
been times in my life where I'm just
giving everything up for a relationship
and now I understand why I'll just stop
streaming and now
go anywhere do anything to be closer to
the person yeah and cuz yeah and so this
is the hard thing this is why I guess
maybe I'm shooting myself in the foot
here but I'm I guess I'm volunteering
and and the reason is because I think
that that person needs to also I mean
they don't need to understand this but I
think that person needs to not let you
do that as well yeah right so that I
realized that don't let you like if you
want to move to Boston I'm gonna say no
right right and it doesn't mean that I
don't care about you but it's just you
should continue to live your life and
have some degree of constancy from
someone and it sounds like you're in a
romantic relationship so I mean it
doesn't have to be right now I'm not no
okay
I was though I did it a twitch streamer
girl and we met in Japan that we were
both IRL streaming in Japan now and it
was so exciting to meet like that and we
traveled to other places together but
then when life's kind of settled in slow
down I you know was slowly giving up
everything just to spend more time with
her at one point I had actually deleted
my twitch channel which my viewers
thought was insane because I just I
don't know I can't even explain why I
don't know
okay well a conversation for a different
day yeah do you feel like meditating for
a few minutes do you yes yeah I yeah I
feel like I need a break from thought
yeah good you do you want to take a
break for a few minutes first and then
meditate on how clogged does your nose
it's pretty good I'm getting over the
sickness finally I think I've been sick
the whole time we've known each other
maybe that's a first session yeah so
nowadays I've been on a chanting kick
I've chanted with a couple of people how
do you feel about trying that I saw you
do with Lily by the way I love Lily and
I'm really happy you talked to her and
I'd love to see more of that yeah more
more of you talking to Lily I mean oh
okay it made me happy
good I'm sorry do the chant again feels
super awkward I like the whole thought
process behind it was like that that she
has to overcome as our Curtis I like I
like that yeah so I think we're gonna or
you feel up to changing yeah let's do it
okay on it so remember that chanting is
and you guys should do this at home as
well so chanting is composed of three
syllables or we're gonna do own chanting
so
[Music]
okay and thanks for the subs Andy
Milonakis
Andy Milonakis hmm I know him oh yeah so
he's a famous person right he is a
famous person he just gifted a bunch of
sub so thank you very much man okay so
we're gonna do ohm Jan ting so I'm gonna
demonstrate one round and then I'm we're
gonna do one round together and then I'm
gonna hear you do one round
okay so I'll demonstrate once
[Laughter]
[Music]
one round together
I messed up at the Doublemint second but
I got it now I get it okay so now let's
see here you do it on your own
okay okay so I think the second two are
cutting out just like they did with Lily
which is fine
so I'm gonna give you one or cutting
house yeah they're cutting out so maybe
try to be louder the second thing is I
want you to open your mouth more so eyes
not I don't hear that everybody
[Laughter]
[Music]
ah
beautiful okay now eyes closed
remember that chanting is about
vibration not about sound so I want you
to try to feel the vibration in your
body and I'm going to ask you reckful at
the end of it where you felt the
vibration which part of your body so pay
attention to the sound the the each
sound is gonna feel slightly different
in your body and we're gonna ask you
about that afterward we're gonna do five
breaths together okay
[Music]
[Laughter]
again
[Music]
okay I think I feel it here we're gonna
do two more
no talking two more just hands down two
more so deep breath in
two more after that
[Laughter]
Oh
last one big deep breath
[Music]
and now sit with your eyes closed just
feel alright reckful come on back how do
you feel i I really drifted away during
that I was not so the first one I was
self-conscious of giggling a bit in the
night I was gone I was just immersed in
it which is surprising to me that I was
able to do that ma'am yeah yeah how do
you feel
I really enjoyed turning off my brain
for a bit we had talked and usually I
just said I love stimulating
conversation back and forth but then I
felt I felt burnt out and then
transitioning into consciousness without
thought was amazing so I want you to do
something
I won't you just look at your face like
go back and watch the vaad and look at
your face now and look at your face at
the beginning of the interview you're
compatible give it it's gonna be happier
yeah right yeah so you can be happy this
way just give it give it some time I
think I can i yeah we can go more into
that later I think I think I can
definitely the feelings of the fears of
abandonment and the my desires might
when I'm actually consciously thinking
life is a lot worse right now when I'm
not thinking it's pretty similar I mean
I guess by definition which is what
you're trying to get me to the not
thinking right yeah yeah yeah but my
thoughts go in loops a lot more negative
ones if I'm thinking it's like there's
that analogy with the the sleds on the
snowy mountain you heard that one
oh maybe yeah I think yeah when when you
yeah so this is the thing like I mean
the one I tell is the game trail so like
you know if you think about like a field
and a deer walks across it like the
whole field is the same but the deer
walks across one path and that grass is
a little bit trampled and so the next
animal that goes by takes that path
again and it becomes a little bit more
trampled and then over time you develop
a trail and this trail is what your
thoughts are following over and over
yeah that's how your neurons work to
that once you get used to thinking in a
particular cycle like your thoughts like
kind of they love going down that
pathway again how do we break how do we
untrim pull the grass or how do we break
these loops without medication so
medication doesn't break the loops let's
start there okay really so yeah so let's
just think about it so if I were to if
you were to say let's say we have a
field of grass and we've have a game
trail because a thousand animals have
gone down it and I were to ask you
reckful how do we make a different game
trail
we'd have to repeat new thoughts in our
head over and over there it is so we
actually think my people do the
gratitude journals yeah a little bit
maybe yeah absolutely so I think that's
one reason they do grab it so I think
gratitude is one way to do that but I
come on huh I just said talking to you
is fun and so the other thing is we we
think about things in a new way right
and once you learn something like once
you start like recognizing oh okay
and I think you recognize
things within yourself so you recognize
okay there's a thought my mind is about
to go down this game trail but in uh you
know I've also started this other game
trail so let me see if I can redirect
down there
that's what reframing a cognitive bias
is about so when people tell you like Oh
reckful you're you're lonely and and you
should learn how to be independent and
then you beat yourself up for feeling
lonely and you feel like you should be
independent because there are other
people who are your age and look at how
independent they are you all of your
thoughts those are a bunch of game
shells but then you say no hold on a
second I'm different and and I I do feel
lonely I'm allowed to feel lonely and
I'm gonna feel lonely until I get enough
love I love it you telling me that's cuz
everyone else has told me I've said in
my whole life
yeah and how has that worked for you no
no I'm good hahaha there we go yeah
right so I I just I mean that's like the
clinician within me says if you give
someone a treatment for thirty years and
it doesn't work maybe try something else
yeah it's like the UH trying the same
thing over and over is the definition of
insanity right so it doesn't work if at
first you don't succeed
don't try try again try it a different
way yeah and it in your case I don't
think I mean like it's not a complicated
psychological thing I think you're just
I mean maybe it is but like I think at
the end of the day like you just needed
more TLC than you got and it doesn't
mean that your parents did a bad job or
that anyone else be tender love and care
tender love and care
and and you move our terminology reckful
is that band TLC does that what it means
oh I don't know I don't know anything
about bands okay yeah anyway so any
questions for me before we wrap up
specific thoughts questions what do you
think about me on enough psilocybin
what's your take on it I mean my take is
that you are where you are right now in
an order for you so I mean I place a
value judgment on psilocybin and
substance use because of like my life
but I try not to judge other people like
I don't know if I've shared this on
stream but you know one of my patients
who has a lot of physical real problems
like confessed to me that they use
marijuana from time to time and they
were afraid that I would was gonna be
upset because they like because I teach
meditation and yoga and they come to me
to learn all this like healthy natural
kind of stuff and I was like look you're
doing everything right you know you're
going to you do yoga five days a week
you meditate every day you're eating
healthy and and sometimes life just
gives you pain and if you're if you're
saying that you use marijuana from time
to time like twice a month because there
are just days where it just really
really sucks and you need a break like I
think you know that's fine like you have
to decide for yourself
you know choices that I make in my life
about what I choose to use and the value
judgments that I place or for me they're
not for you
now I think the only thing that I would
really oh wow so learn gifted just a
bunch of subs so thank you very much
learn so the only thing that I would say
for you reckful is the only thing the
only mistake that I think you can truly
make is to not be reflective about it
okay
if you go through an honest process of
exploring alternatives and seeing how
the way you feel and trying to live is
sad reckful as opposed to happy reckful
like explore that and then come to your
own conclusion and whatever conclusion
you come to I'm behind you just don't do
it on autopilot that's the only thing
thanks that had more of an emotional
impact than I was expecting
same I was in professor mode I don't
know if you guys caught that but there
are different modes one is I'm quiet and
I'm listening and the other is I'm
teaching it's my teacher voice but okay
well you know it was it was this feeling
that you accepted me too and it gave me
the option to make my own decisions as
long as I'm being as long as I'm
consciously critically thinking and
analyzing me yeah which is I appreciate
yeah I think you know I it's not my
place to tell you that something is
right or wrong I mean I may do that from
time to time but I think the most
important thing is for you to decide I
think you should explore Oh Chad I want
to tell you guys dr. K and I are gonna
do this every week now at this time if
you don't like this time slot tweet at
us we'll think of a different time slot
if I kind of like this time so maybe one
hour forward or one hour back whatever
you know it stays one two three
Wednesdays one two three Eastern was is
our current plan tweet at us if you want
to slightly change are you flexible to
move in an hour here or there yeah yeah
I just need to know ahead of time
because I got scheduled other things
yeah
and yeah so
um let me just think about this real
quick okay so thanks a lot reckful yeah
and I'll talk to you next week
III enjoyed this yeah I don't feel like
I don't feel overwhelmed like I went too
far but I feel like I learned to get
amounts and I'm ready to go on with my
day and get some stuff done and good I
hope you guys can chat enjoyed
yourselves and thanks for the hearts
take care and take care see you next
time see you next week